The Messenger: add a plando guide (#4719)
ArchipelagoMW/Archipelago: worlds/messenger/docs/plando_en.md

# The Messenger Plando Guide

This is a guide for detailing the usage of the game specific plando options that The Messenger has. The Messenger also
supports the generic item plando. For more information on what plando is and for information covering item plando, refer
to the [generic Archipelago plando guide.](/tutorial/Archipelago/plando/en) The Messenger also uses the generic

> connection plando interface, but as it is handled differently than that guide describes, it will be covered in this

Reviewer: I wonder if "interface" should be a different word, like "system"?
Probably good to use "because" instead of "as" to avoid ambiguities / allow for an easier flow.
```suggestion
connection plando system; but, because it is handled differently than that guide describes, it will be covered in this
```
I'm really trying to think of how to reword this sentence, since it's a little awkward, but it's not easy. *Maybe* this?

```suggestion
connection plando system; but, because there are differences between The Messenger's implementation and what that guide describes, it will be covered in this
```
Or maybe
```suggestion
connection plando system with specific behaviors that will be covered in this
```
I'll open a PR to fix that doc being wrong

guide along with the other options.

## Shop Price Plando

This option allows you to specify prices for items in both shops. This also supports weighting, allowing you to choose
from multiple different prices for any given item.

### Example

```yaml
The Messenger:
  shop_price_plan:
    Karuta Plates: 50
    Devil's Due: 1
    Barmath'azel Figurine:
      # left side is price, right side is weight
      500: 10
      700: 5
      1000: 20
```

This block will make the item at the `Karuta Plates` node cost 50 shards, `Devil's Due` will cost 1 shard, and
`Barmath'azel Figurine` will cost either 500, 700, or 1000, with 1000 being the most likely with a 20/35 chance.

## Portal Plando

> This option allows you to specify specific outputs for the portals. This option will only be checked if portal shuffle

Reviewer: You used this later, could also just remove "certain", but I think keeping it is likely better
I think "be checked" is a bit of an odd wording, maybe just "work" or "function"?
```suggestion
This option allows you to specify certain outputs for the portals. This option will only work if portal shuffle
```

and the `connections` plando host setting are enabled.

A portal connection is plandoed by specifying an `entrance` and an `exit`. This option also supports `percentage`, which

> is the percentage chance that connection occurs. The `entrance` is which portal is going to be entered, whereas the

Reviewer: The double "that" is usually used in constructions like this so that a single that isn't read with the meaning of the first
```suggestion
is the percent chance that that connection occurs. The `entrance` is which portal is going to be entered, whereas the
```

> `exit` is where the portal will lead to and can include a shop location, a checkpoint, or any portal. However, the

Reviewer: You can drop the preposition
```suggestion
`exit` is where the portal will lead and can include a shop location, a checkpoint, or any portal. However, the
```

portal exit must also be in the available pool for the selected portal shuffle option. For example, if portal shuffle is
set to `shops`, then the valid exits will only be portals and shops; any exit that is a checkpoint will not be valid. If

> portal shuffle is set to `checkpoints` or `anywhere`, then all exits are valid.

Reviewer: Not exactly related, but if you're on `checkpoints` can you plando portals in a way that would only be valid on `anywhere`?

All valid connections for portal shuffle can be found by scrolling through the [portals module](https://github.com/ArchipelagoMW/Archipelago/blob/main/worlds/messenger/portals.py#L12).

> The entrance and exit should be written exactly as it appears within that file, except for when the **exit** point is a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The entrance and exit should be written exactly as they appear within that file, except for when the **exit** point is a
```

> portal. In that case it should have "Portal" included.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
portal. In that case, it should have "Portal" included.
```

### Example

```yaml
The Messenger:
  portal_plando:
    - entrance: Riviere Turquoise
      exit: Wingsuit
    - entrance: Sunken Shrine
      exit: Sunny Day
    - entrance: Searing Crags
      exit: Glacial Peak Portal
```

> This block will make it such that the Riviere Turquoise Portal will exit to the Wingsuit Shop, the Sunken Shrine Portal

Reviewer: Probably better as a "so that"
```suggestion
This block will make it so that the Riviere Turquoise Portal will exit to the Wingsuit Shop, the Sunken Shrine Portal
```

will exit to the Sunny Day checkpoint, and the Searing Crags Portal will exit to the Glacial Peak Portal.

## Transition Plando

> This option allows you to specify certain connections when using transition shuffle. This will only be checked if

Reviewer: Same as earlier
```suggestion
This option allows you to specify certain connections when using transition shuffle. This will only work if
```

transition shuffle and the `connections` plando host setting are enabled. 

> Each transition connection is plandoed by specifying a few different attributes of it:

Reviewer: It seems kind of odd that you use a completely different structure to describe this when there's only one additional attribute: `direction`

> Each transition connection is plandoed by specifying a few different attributes of it:

Reviewer: Could use this wording maybe?
```suggestion
Each transition connection is plandoed by specifying its attributes:
```

* `entrance` is where you will enter this transition from.

> * `exit` is where the transition will lead to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `exit` is where the transition will lead.
```

* `percentage` is the chance this connection will happen at all.
* `direction` is used to specify whether this connection will also go in reverse. This entry will be ignored if the
  transition shuffle is set to `coupled` or if the specified connection can only occur in one direction, such as exiting
  to Riviere Turquoise. The default direction is "both", which will make it so that returning through the exit
  transition will return you to where you entered it from. "entrance" and "exit" are treated the same, with them both
  making this transition only one-way.

Valid connections can be found in the [`RANDOMIZED_CONNECTIONS` dictionary](https://github.com/ArchipelagoMW/Archipelago/blob/main/worlds/messenger/connections.py#L640).
The keys (left) are entrances, and values (right) are exits. Whether you want the connection to go both ways or not, both

> sides must either be two-way or one-way.

Reviewer: Might be good to add a bit like you did earlier of a negative example. Something like "You cannot connect a two-way entrance and a one-way exit". Also, is there a way for players to know which connections are two-way and which are one-way? Might be good to add that info into the dictionary or somewhere similar, maybe even just as a big series of comments?

### Example

```yaml
The Messenger:
  plando_connections:
    - entrance: Searing Crags - Top
      exit: Dark Cave - Right
    - entrance: Glacial Peak - Left
      exit: Corrupted Future
```

> This block will create the following behavior:

Reviewer: You don't really create behavior, maybe just "connections"?
```suggestion
This block will create the following connections:
```

Also once again a _little_ odd that you use a completely different structure here, but I think it makes more sense in this case since the explanations are more involved.
